## Noam Aharon's Final Project for Command Line GIS 651

# Intersection of Industrial Facilities, Flood Hazards, and Social Vulnerability in Hillsborough County, Florida 

Industrial and commercial facilities that manage hazardous materials can become a source of toxic pollution and contamination during flooding events. Flood waters can overwhelm a facility's capacity to properly store its materials, resulting in a discharge of harmful chemicals and wastes into surrounding communities. The threat of a toxic release further exacerbates the more apparent issues that occur from large flooding events (such as power outages, critical infrastructure damage, and loss of life). Vulnerable communities in flood-prone areas situated near industrial and commercial facilities face the greatest risks associated with flood-driven toxic releases. 

Residents of Hillsborough County, in Western Florida, have been hit hard this past year by a series of hurricanes and tropical storms resulting in widescale flooding. After the storms subsided, it was discovered that much of the flood water was contaminated with a slew of toxic chemicals and materials coming from wastewater treatment plants, oil tankers, and manufacturing facilities. In order to improve the prepardness and resiliency of communities in regard to flood-driven toxic releasese, this project aims to identify facilities of concern (facilities that can discharge hazardous materials during a flood), and determine the level of threat the facilities poses to surrounding communities. The threat that a facility poses will be determined by its proximity to socially vulnerable communities (defined by the CDC's SVI) and high-risk flood zones (defined by FEMA). City planners and legislators can use this information to reinforce certain facilities of concern, and more importantly, place measures in the most at-risk areas to prevent toxic releases from becoming a humanitarian disaster. 

I will first introduce the datasets used in this project and describe the methdologies used to clean and manipulate the datasets for analysis. Static maps will be displayed throughout the data/methodology description as well as the "results/analysis" section. Lastly, I will present an interactive webmap which shows the relationship between facilities of concern and the various hazard zones identified for the analysis. While it is recommended to read through the earlier sections on this site to understand the context of the webmap, you may jump to the webmap by clicking HERE. 
